---
layout: post
title: The JS SDK hits version 2.0
date: 2018-08-15 15:16 -0400
comments: true
author: flovilmart
categories: [announcements, javascript, sdk]
---

The summer has been really busy and we've dusted off the JS SDK, stripping out large parts of its legacy. `Parse.Promises` and `Backbone` style callbacks are definitely out.

<!-- more -->

## *Why the move now you may ask?*

Well, we're also working hard on parse-server version 3.0, which revamps the cloud code API. The Cloud Code 'callbacks' have always been in the form: `response.success('yay');` and `response.error('oops');`.

The `response` object is following the backbone style callback form, with `success` and `error` callbacks. The next generation of Cloud Code will get rid of this interface that belongs to another age. In 2018, `async` functions and `Promise` are part of the JavaScript language, available in the LTS node runtime, and not only the leading edge.

## *What should I do?*

- If you're still relying upon backbone style callbacks with the JavaScript SDK, your code will break. You will need to replace backbone style `success`/`error` callbacks with `Promises`.

- If you're using `Parse.Promise`'s the migration should be painless. `Parse.Promise` was mostly compatible with the native `Promise` interface.

In both cases, you'll need to spend some time making sure your code still work as expected. If you have unit tests, it's also time to update them!

## *It's a lot of work, should I really move to SDK 2.0?*

Yes it is! It will remove many lines of code, and make your code more readable.

Take the following example:

```js
function loginAndGetFeed(username, password, callback) {
  Parse.User.logIn(username, password, {
    success: function(user) {
      const query = new Parse.Query('Feed');
      query.find({
        success: function(feed) {
          callback(null, feed);
        },
        error: function(error) {
          callback(error);
        }
      })
    },
    error: function(error) {
      callback(error);
    }
  })
}
```

With the modern SDK you get the equivalent with just a fraction of the lines:

```js
async function loginAndGetFeed(username, password,) {
  await Parse.User.logIn(username, password);
  const feed = await new Parse.Query('Feed').find();
  return feed;
}
```

## *I'm sold. How do I get started?*

We have written a [migration guide](https://github.com/parse-community/Parse-SDK-JS/blob/master/2.0.0.md) that will help you along the way. As always, do not hesitate to [open an issue](https://github.com/parse-community/Parse-SDK-JS/issues/new).

When parse-server version 3.0 gets out, it will ship with this version of the JS SDK.

We hope you enjoy this update that truly brings the JS SDK to 2018's standards!
